>> Jon Kuperman: So, with that,
we will go into our 3rd exercise,
which is tab trapping.
So if we go back over to the website,
and we go back to this area here, and
we go to exercise 3 tab trapping, we'll
notice that we have quite a simple page.
And on this page we have a modal form.
And so you click open the modal and
it opens this contact thing, and
it sort of works how you would
expect where you open it and
it's got a form to it, and
then you hit cancel and it closes it.
But the thing that you'll notice,
like I had described before,
is if you go ahead and you open it and you
begin tabbing through the elements here,
that once you get to the cancel button,
which is the last tab able element,
if you hit tab again, it actually takes
you up and starts tabbing you through,
like my Chrome tabs up here.
I've completely lost the plot here,
and now I'm tabbing back through
the website and
then finally I get back into the modal.
And so kind of your task here, and
the source code, again is all in this HTML
with a little bit of JavaScript here,
is to create a tab trap.
And so the idea being that in some way
there's multiple ways to solve this.
When you are on the last element and
you hit tab,
it should instead of letting you go, it
should send you back to the first element.
And similarly, when you're on the first
element and you hit shift tab,
it should send you to the last element.
All right, cool.
So, yeah, welcome back.
Let's kinda go through this
tab trapping one together.
Hopefully people found it okay.
There's, I think, a couple of
different ways we can solve it.
And again, yeah,
the bigger takeaway, I guess,
is like starting to understand more and
more what the usability concerns are for
people that are doing keyboard only or
using screen readers.
So just as a reminder,
we'll go back into the example here.
We've got this modal and the modal already
does a bunch of cool things for us.
It's like if we hit escape or
click away, it should close and
we can tab through the form elements,
which is great.
But the kinda problem that we were looking
to solve was that when you tab to the end
and then hit tab again,
your focus gets moved back up here.
Similarly, if you were to shift tab
to the beginning and then shift tab,
it gets moved back behind here.
And this is not what we are looking for.
So kinda jumping into
the code a little bit.
Feel free to follow along if you
didn't do the exercise, but otherwise,
however you did it, I'm sure is fine.
But we've got these kind
of two event listeners.
We've got the handle escape key and
the handle tab key.
And so we kinda want to just
implement this handle tab key event.
So we can just do a handle tab key,
and we can grab the event,
and then I think there's a couple of
ways that we could go about doing this.
I guess if we can just log kinda some
things out here and open the DevTools.
So when we hit tab,
we get access to this E,
and the E, if we log it out has
a bunch of good stuff on it.
Yeah, it's got like a code and
a key that are both tabs.
So I think we can do something like,
okay, so we're in here.
If the E key is not and then whatever
that was tab, then we can just return.
Right, so
we only wanna care about the tab key, and
then what we'll do is something like if.
Yeah, there's like a shift key property,
so we'll do if E shift key.
And here we know going backwards or
however we wanna call it, and then else.
And then here we know going forwards and
then, for those that dug through the code,
I provided a helper method.
This does something very
similar to the focusable
library that I had highlighted earlier.
So essentially just returning a big
string of all of the tap able elements
that you can find.
So this one is constrained to just
the ones that we have in our little app.
But you could basically do the same thing.
So basically it's like this array of
all of the different tap able elements.
So I think the things that
we'll sort of wanna do are,
if we're going backwards and
we are on the first one,
if we're shift tabbing and
we're on the first element,
then we would wanna do something
like prevent default and
set focus to last element,
something like that.
And then similarly, if we're going
forwards and we're on the last element,
then we would wanna prevent default and
set focus to first element, basically,
something like that.
I think there's lots of different
ways you could solve it.
So in here, if we're not on the tab,
then we return.
We can make a focusable elements equals
what was our get focusable elements.
So this should be a nice
list of things we can make.
They're like first element
equals focusable elements,
the first one, and then const
last element equals the focusable
elements at focusable
elements length minus one.
So that should give us the first,
the last, and then we could even make like
a const current element if we wanted,
using again from the previous slides.
There's a couple ways we can do this, but
we can use that document active element.
And so if we go ahead and console log out
first, last current, something like that.
And then go ahead and
play this through and refresh.
Okay, cool.
So the first element is
the input name that looks right,
the last element is the button
close modal that also looks right,
and then the current element
would be the input name.
That seems good to me.
So then here I think we can do something
like, okay, if the current element is
equal to the first element,
then we're in our little things,
we can do our E prevent default and
then again using the APIs that we learned
about the Focus API, so then we can
call last element focus, right?
So if it's a tab and
it's a shift and we're on the 1st,
don't do anything normal,
instead send you to the last.
And then we'll do the same thing here.
So we'll do if the current element
is equal to the last element.
So if it's a tab and it's not a shift and
we're on the last element,
then we'll do a prevent default, and
then we'll focus on the first element.
So let's give that a try and
see how it went.
We'll open up the modal tab to the end.
Yes, okay, so now I have tabbed to
the cancel and then I hit tab again, and
it takes me to the name, and let's see
if shift tab takes me to the cancel.
So I can kinda hold the tab key and
just circle around these things, and
that should be good.
I find the active element opens up a bunch
of really cool features that you can build
by preserving their focus.
You could do other things,
you could get fancy.
I think right now you open the modal,
it does.
Okay, it focuses on the first element.
But if you had a more robust custom
application, you could unopen, make sure
that the user was focused where you'd like
them to be, and kind of trapping them in.
Also making sure that there are ways for
example,
you should be able to hit escape to close
the modal because if you're keyboard only,
you're not gonna be able
to click away from it.
So just kind of some
considerations like that.